docs/docs/about.md, before:

---
title: about
authors: SongshGeo
date: 2023-01-10
long_name: Agent-Based Social-ecological systems Modelling Framework in Python
name: AB-SESpy
state: open
banner_icon: 💻
banner: "https://songshgeo-picgo-1302043007.cos.ap-beijing.myqcloud.com/uPic/ABEGM_Banner_v1.png"
banner_y: 0.52
SES: social-ecological systems
github: https://github.com/SongshGeo
email: songshgeo@gmail.com
website: https://cv.songshgeo.com
---
## What is an Agent-based Model (ABM)

> [!INFO]Definition
> An agent-based model (often referred to as **ABM**) is composed of autonomous agents, **who are diverse and interact with one another and their environment**.

ABM is simulated over time: at each [time step](#TODO) or [event](#TODO), agents take [decisions](#TODO) and act based on [their attributes](#TODO) and/or in response or anticipation of other agents’ behaviours or changes in the [environment](#TODO). The micro-level actions and interactions of many agents **give rise to macro-level patterns** and dynamics, which are typically the focus of analysis. The agents thus respond diversely to the contexts (*usually depicted by the model's parameters and variables*) they jointly created, and their actions' outcomes then lead to an emergence of the macro-pattern.

## What are Social-ecological Systems (SESs)
> [!INFO]Definition
> ‘**Social-ecological systems**’ (SES) is a concept for understanding the intertwined nature of human and natural systems in an interconnected and interdependent way ^[@biggs2021].

**SESs** are not merely social plus ecological systems, but cohesive, integrated systems characterised by strong connections and feedbacks within and between social and ecological components that determine their overall dynamics ^[@folke2010]. As such, SES are a type of [complex adaptive systems](../background#complex-adaptive-systems(cas)), and studying SESs often requires the methods or the applications to cover the social domains, ecological domains, and the emergence from their dynamic interdependence ^[@folke2016].

## ABM as a critical method in studying SES

## When and How ABM to study SES

## References

Commit message:

docs: :art: update docs with new logo

docs/docs/about.md, after:

---
title: about
authors: SongshGeo
date: 2023-01-10
long_name: Agent-Based Social-ecological systems Modelling Framework in Python
name: AB-SESpy
state: finished
banner_icon: 💻
banner: "https://songshgeo-picgo-1302043007.cos.ap-beijing.myqcloud.com/uPic/ABEGM_Banner_v1.png"
banner_y: 0.52
SES: social-ecological systems
github: https://github.com/SongshGeo
email: songshgeo@gmail.com
website: https://cv.songshgeo.com

emergence: ../background#emergence
cas: ../background#complex-adaptive-systems#complex-adaptive-systems(cas)
---
## What is an Agent-based Model (ABM)

> [!INFO]Definition
> An agent-based model (often referred to as **ABM**) is composed of autonomous agents, **who are diverse and interact with one another and their environment**.

ABM is simulated over time: at each [time step](#TODO) or [event](#TODO), agents take [decisions](#TODO) and act based on [their attributes](#TODO) and/or in response or anticipation of other agents’ behaviours or changes in the [environment](#TODO). The micro-level actions and interactions of many agents **give rise to macro-level patterns** and dynamics, which are typically the focus of analysis. The agents thus respond diversely to the contexts (*usually depicted by the model's parameters and variables*) they jointly created, and their actions' outcomes then lead to an [emergence]({{emergence}}) of the macro-pattern.

## What are Social-ecological Systems (SESs)
> [!INFO]Definition
> ‘**Social-ecological systems**’ (SES) is a concept for understanding the intertwined nature of human and natural systems in an interconnected and interdependent way ^[@biggs2021].

**SESs** are not merely social plus ecological systems, but cohesive, integrated systems characterised by strong connections and feedbacks within and between social and ecological components that determine their overall dynamics ^[@folke2010]. As such, SES are a type of [complex adaptive systems]({{cas}}), and studying SESs often requires the methods or the applications to cover the social domains, ecological domains, and the [emergence]({{emergence}}) from their dynamic interdependence ^[@folke2016].

## ABM is an essential method in studying SES
**Several characteristics of AMB make it an essential method for SES research:**

1. It focuses on the [change of an SES over time](#TODO) from mutual adaptations of agents and their environments.
2. its ability to generate [emergent]({{emergence}}) system-level outcomes from micro-level interactions and macro-level feedback.
3. its ability to represent the diversity and heterogeneity of human and non-human actors and the [spatial characteristics](#TODO) of an SES.
4. its capacity serves as a virtual laboratory in which researchers and stakeholders can [experiment](#TODO) with an SES to explore possible consequences of interventions.

## When and How ABM to study SES

Agent-based models of SES are often developed for one of the following **purposes** ^[@biggs2021]:

- Exploring or explaining the [emergence]({{emergence}}) of social-ecological outcomes and understanding the SES's evolution over time.
- Assessing the impact of a new policy or disturbance on an SES that is understood as a [complex adaptive system]({{cas}}), including potential unintended consequences.
- Supporting a [participatory process](#TODO) that aims to enhance problem understanding.

## References
