docs/examples/official.md, before:

# Official Examples

This showcases the use of `ABSESpy` for ABM. We divide the models into two types: heuristic models[^1] and real-world models. The major difference is that real-world models have datasets as input, so usually simulations of the real SESs.

## Heuristic models[^1]

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[Hotelling]__

    ---
    An adaptation of the Hotelling's Law model.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

</div>


## Real-world models

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[South China Livelihood]__

    ---
    Here, we developed the model to explore the evolution of livelihood in the South of China.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[Yellow River Water Quota]__

    ---
    This agent-based model shows how water uses were change by water quota policy in the Yellow River Basin, China.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

</div>

[^1]:
    Heuristic models are streamlined strategies used to tackle complex issues when precise formulas or solutions aren't feasible. These models rely on heuristic methods, practical tactics that may not always yield the best solution but offer a satisfactory one within an acceptable time limit.


<!-- Heuristic models -->
  [Hotelling]: ../tutorial/beginner/hotelling_tutorial.ipynb

<!-- Real-world models -->
  [South China Livelihood]: official/south_china_livelihood.md
  [Yellow River Water Quota]: official/yellow_river_water_quota.md

Commit message:

docs(docs): :memo: update geodata docs, include fire tutorial

docs/examples/official.md, after:

# Official Examples

This showcases the use of `ABSESpy` for ABM. We divide the models into two types: heuristic models[^1] and real-world models. The major difference is that real-world models have datasets as input, so usually simulations of the real SESs.

## Heuristic models[^1]

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[Hotelling]__

    ---
    An adaptation of the Hotelling's Law model.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[Forest Fire]__

    ---
    An implementation of the `Fire` model.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

</div>


## Real-world models

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[South China Livelihood]__

    ---
    Here, we developed the model to explore the evolution of livelihood in the South of China.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

-   :material-robot-happy:{ .lg .middle } __[Yellow River Water Quota]__

    ---
    This agent-based model shows how water uses were change by water quota policy in the Yellow River Basin, China.

    <!-- [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Checkout] -->

</div>

[^1]:
    Heuristic models are streamlined strategies used to tackle complex issues when precise formulas or solutions aren't feasible. These models rely on heuristic methods, practical tactics that may not always yield the best solution but offer a satisfactory one within an acceptable time limit.


<!-- Heuristic models -->
  [Hotelling]: ../tutorial/beginner/hotelling_tutorial.ipynb
  [Forest Fire]: ../tutorial/beginner/fire_tutorial.ipynb

<!-- Real-world models -->
  [South China Livelihood]: official/south_china_livelihood.md
  [Yellow River Water Quota]: official/yellow_river_water_quota.md
